the casing or can is formed to exact
tolerances to provide strength and
support for all filter components an
important feature of the casing is the
Filat radius which is the arc
measurement from the side of the can to
its dome the fill it radius helps absorb
pressure pulsations of the oil system
made from heavy gauge spring steel the
coiled spring is designed to hold the
inner filter element to the base plate
this prevents dirty oil from escaping
before passing through the filters to
maintain structural integrity and
performance efficiency of the filter
element no corners are cut each filter
component is designed and built to
perform very specific functions under
all situations Napa gold combines the
highest quality materials with superior
design and workmanship to maximize
engine life and performance
filter media performance is judged on
efficiency and capacity efficiency
measures how effective a filter traps
and holds contaminants often this is
expressed using particle sizes measured
in microns capacity is the volume of
contaminants the filter can hold without
plugging up
if oil is allowed to drain out it will
create a dry startup condition the valve
also stays flexible in extreme
temperatures and won't become brittle
under extreme driving conditions
Natha gold filters use the up-front
style of valve that keeps oil from
washing over the contaminated media
carrying dirt back into the engine in a
filter bypass situation the some of the
quality components of the napa gold
filter and the structural integrity of
its design are what make it the gold
standard of oil filters